QUEENSRYCHE - Get Yer News On Seven Releases Right Here
By Martin Popoff 

So here's the deal. By now you should all be chomping into the slimmed-down reissue of the band's Operation Livecrime album. You might also be experiencing prog metal heaven through the resplendent double live digi-release of Live Evolution, a 2CD monster arranged in rough chronological order. That's two. Coming soon, DVD versions of both these monsters. After that, there's a Geoff Tate solo album, a Michael Wilton solo album (not as far along as Geoff's) and then one day through the Seattle rain, a new Queensryche studio album. That's seven, four of which (I skipped the DVDs and I didn't ask him about Geoff's) original QR six-stringer Michael Wilton (www.michaelwilton.com) will tell us about below. 

1. Operation Livecrime
"Operation Livecrime is basically a reissue from when we did the album in the early days. And because of the activity of our new record label, EMI decided to re-release it and put a couple extra songs on it (ed.: live bonus tracks). Livecrime was a three or four day shoot. It was very nerve-racking. You almost feel secondary to the film crew and the production people making sure everything is set up right (laughs). Once the show started, you know, fortunately we had been on tour for awhile so it wasn't a one-off. It was pretty much just the show that we had been doing and maybe just kind of looking at the crowd a little bit more (laughs). For me it was, at that moment, 'let's do this, let's have fun,' it's just really take this home and give it the best live representation we can. I wasn't under the assumption that this was going to be a recording that was going to be re-released years ahead in the future (laughs) and still be our fans' favourite. But it was just a great time for me, being a very hard rock, riffing guitar player. Because those songs tended to lean that way." 

2. Live Evolution.
"We had said, let's put some chronological detail to it. The song selection is a combination of known live killers that work well as well as some adventurous renditions from songs from the early days (laughs). The one that really surprised me was 'London', because we just pulled that out of our hat. I'm sitting there trying to show Kelly the double solo in the song and it was just kind of a strange thing. And I think the rendition of 'Roads To Madness' was pretty cool. But my favourite part of the disk is probably the EP/Warning Suite, just because it's not so rehearsed, you know what I mean? It hasn't been played to death (laughs). But yeah, our idea was to arrange them in suites so the listener can reminisce with whatever era they like, their favorite Queensryche time." 

3. The next Queensryche studio album.
"To tell you the truth, I don't know. We are at a point in our career where we really can't plan anything now. Personally, my whole career, I've been a riff person. I come up with the riffs and they either work or they don't and that's where they start. But I can't just write the songs... maybe I can, I don't know. If Geoff told you it's going to be metal (ed. he did), well, that's right up my alley. I like to hear that. I like the more aggressive style. After we do this tour, maybe we can start concentrating on that. I have to start compiling all these riffs and turn them into something that Geoff can listen to. But it's a band and everybody is pulling in different directions. Sometimes my stuff will get in there, and it will be simple and heavy. Sometimes we tend to get a little bit too clever for ourselves and then it loses the essence." 

"Right now the band has to be in a room, with technology and computers and stuff and say 'Who's got an idea? Let's listen to it, OK, let's record it, boom! Hey I can add something to that, boom!' It's a crazy building process and it's a different way of writing. It's quicker but you tend to get so many ideas that you kind of lose track of what you're doing (laughs). You go back at the end of the day and listen to it and you go 'what the hell is that!?'" 

4. The Michael Wilton solo album.
"I am the riffmaster! That's what I do. I'm doing a solo project and I'm pulling together all my riffs with all my friends, and the people who are into what I'm doing, are really going to dig it." Doug Pinnick from King's X? "Yeah! If he's ever around. He's very busy. I've called him a couple times and he goes 'yeah, Michael, I want to get up to Seattle and I want to sing on your record.' The guy is busy. He's doing recording after recording. He's down in Houston. I've got to call him. So maybe he'll be on my record, unless I get somebody else to do what I'm doing and start fresh with him. I've got the beds for eight songs right now. At first I was going to do kind of an extended EP, maybe six songs, then we had the whole deal with the record company. I'm just trying to work out the logistics. If you go to www.michaelwilton.com, there's a wave you can listen to; it's called 'Arizona'." 
